What is a Java method?
Methods are a sequence of statements that perform a specific task.
They are analogous to functions in JavaScript, and like JavaScript functions,
they commonly accept input, and produce output.


Why use additional methods rather than writing all Java code in a main method?
Provides an easier to read, more well formatted code


What does it mean to ‘call’ or ‘invoke’ a method?
run the code in the method


What are six parts of a method definition as explained in the curriculum?
public static String sayHello(String name){

}


public -- this is the visibility modifier.

This defines whether or not other classes can see this method. For now, just put public here.

static -- the presence of this keyword defines that the method belongs to the class, as opposed to instances of it.

For now, we will define all of our methods as static. We'll explore this concept in more detail in the next lesson.

String -- this is the return type of the method.

In Java, all methods must define the type of the value they will return. If a method does not return anything, the special keyword void is used here.

If a method defines a return type, it must have a return statement. It is a compile time error for a method that defines a return type to not return anything, or to return a value of a type other than the one that is specified.

If a method's return type is void, it is a compile time error to return anything inside of the method; however, methods with a void return type can still use the return keyword to exit the method early.

sayHello -- the name of the method.

Method names follow the same rules as variable names.

(String name) -- the parameter the method accepts.

A method can be defined with no parameters, one parameter (like in our example), or multiple parameters (separated by commas). A type must be specified for each parameter.

Everything inside the curly braces is the body of the method.


In what ways do Java methods differ from JS functions?
function declaration, return type of function needs to be specified in declaration as well as
data type in parameter


What is a method signature?
the function call : add(int x, int b)


What is method overloading?
creating multiple methods that do the same thing with different parameters of different data types
called differently based on the parameter passed in


Will changing the return type of a method overload it?
No


What is recursion and what are the differences/pros/cons compared to iteration?
recursion is a problem solving technique involving having a function call itself
pros involve simpler syntax
cons require an exit case


What is a StackOverflowError?
bad recursive call with an improper exit condition or too many calls to fulfill the condition